okay so a couple years ago Apple was
already rumored to be working on
bringing a new type of display
technology to their laptops and their
iPads and potentially IMAX that would
greatly improve the image quality of
their devices and this was tech called
mini LED displays now because Apple is a
super rich company and they spent a lot
of their money on R&D everyone thought
that they would come out with it first
like they would be the first guys to
bring out mini LED consumer mobile
devices but somehow somehow they got
beat by MSI this is the MSI creator 17
and it is the first mini LED based
laptop on the market and it is awesome
like the screen is fantastic now because
this is tech that's going to be
appearing in mac books and you know what
it's not just that this is tech that I
think will be going into basically every
kind of high-end laptop and high-end
tablet going to the future because it's
just so much better and this is the way
that I think the industry will be moving
forward with screens on laptops not OLED
screens like we kind of hoped they would
in the past now and this is not even at
full brightness it gets crazy brighten
all right how do we do this
let's talk about mini leds first and
what they are and what makes them so
special so a mini LED display gives you
a brighter screen with way higher
contrast ratios and you get better color
accuracy and those are the three kind of
characteristics or factors that you
would take into consideration when you
judge image quality on a device you get
some of the advantages that OLED panels
offer but without issues like flickering
and lifespan and color accuracy things
that we've seen with OLED panels and
laptops many LED is some bang and stuff
so the traditional kind of high quality
IPS display is an LCD panel back lit
with LEDs and they can look pretty good
I mean company's been working on this
formula forever right they've had like
literally seven or eight years with the
same kind of tech we've seen so little
improvement with IPS panels of laptops
it's kind of weird it's lasted this long
but you can only go so far this type of
screen is lit with LEDs that are around
a millimeter in size and these LEDs
together make a wall or a panel of light
that can be brightened or dimmed to get
they have to be adjusted as a whole
panel like there's no individual
adjustment of those LEDs and that sets
limitations on what a panel like this
can do with many LEDs they're a lot
smaller there's zero point two
millimeters in size and because of their
size
this laptop can do something I've never
seen another laptop do before it has
local dimming the mini LED display has
240 zones that will automatically turn
up and down the backlighting based on
the image so for brightly lit sections
of the image those zones will crank it
up and then for sections of the image
that are dark those zones will dim down
and what you end up with is a very high
contrast ratio so your blacks are very
black instead of like a dark gray and
your whites are very white like crazy
white now granted it's not an OLED panel
this will never be like perfect blacks
they won't be you know a million to one
contrast ratio but it's way better than
your traditional IPS panel and because
you get such good contrast ratios with
mini LED you get proper HDR like
full-blown vase s certified HDR peaking
at a thousand nits the color accuracy on
this display is also really good you get
100% DCI p3 very low Delta ease and you
don't have any the screen flickering
that OLED panels have this is an awesome
screen I think this is the best-looking
seventeen inch panel that's available in
the market the one thing that I don't
love about it is the refresh rate it's a
60 Hertz panel which is kind of expected
on a content creation device but despite
that low refresh rate I enjoyed playing
games on this thing just because of how
colorful it is like it's a weirdly
bright and weirdly just vibrant image it
is so nice okay this screen is the it's
the thing that makes the laptop it
really is the thing that defines the MSI
creator 17 if you are interest in this
device I'll just do like a quick review
on it this is a I mean it's a creator
oriented device right it's very powerful
for creative work it has an 8 core CPU
it has an RT X 2080 max-q it's got some
serious chops the performance is good
but the temperatures run a little hot
and I think we do it because they want
to keep the fan noise relatively low on
a machine like this but the fan noise on
idle is still audible and I
don't think it should be like especially
if you have all the settings down to
like super quiet or whatever it should
be a very or near silent system and it
isn't for whatever reason I think they
can fix that with software but in its
current state it is not quiet enough in
my opinion
okay the IO on this thing it's got your
kind of standard port layout you got
three UPA's to use pcs it's got an
Ethernet jack which is a bit of a plus
but the SD card slot is a micro SD which
is like on a creative laptop who's using
micro sd I feel like that should just be
a regular SD slot the keyboard feels
nice it's a little soft to type on but I
personally like it it does have a weird
kind of like slash and Enter key
configuration that you often see with
MSI keyboards and because the number pad
it's got this weird arrow key cluster
that kind of blends the number pad with
the regular keyboard but I think most
people will enjoy typing on this thing
and the track pads this wide trackpad
with a fingerprint sensor on the top
left it's a solid trackpad these
speakers are they're no good if they
were good I'd be talking about them but
they're not okay internally you get to
nvme slots you get replaceable Wi-Fi but
they really give you a great Wi-Fi 6
card from Intel and you got an 82 watt
hour battery which doesn't give you
crazy battery life I got four hours with
the screen at 215 it's if you crank the
screen to brightest like the maximum
setting I got a little bit less than two
hours that's just the way it is I think
brightness of screen really affects
battery life when it comes to laptops
but that's the creator 17 if you're
interested in that mini led life this is
the only machine that has it right now
but the tech will be coming to MacBooks
relatively soon and a whole slew of
other devices in the near future
okay hope you guys enjoyed this video
thumbs if you liked it subs if you loved
it I'll see you guys next time
[Music]